In genome sequence alignment, drawing a **Dotplot** is an intuitive method to visualize sequence similarity and structural variations. Below are commonly used tools for generating Dotplots:

---

### 1. **MUMmer**
   - **Introduction**: MUMmer is a widely used genome alignment tool that supports the generation of high-quality Dotplots, suitable for large-scale genome sequence alignment.
   - **Features**:
     
     - Aligns genome sequences and generates Dotplots.
     - Supports whole-genome and local alignment.
   - **Usage**:
     ```bash
     nucmer --prefix=output ref.fa query.fa
     mummerplot --prefix=output --png output.delta
     ```
   - **Output**: Generates Dotplots in PNG format.
   - **Website**: https://mummer4.github.io/

---

### 2. **Gepard**
   - **Introduction**: Gepard is a Java-based tool specifically designed for generating Dotplots for sequence alignment, suitable for small to medium-sized sequences.
   - **Features**:
     - Supports Dotplots for DNA and protein sequences.
     - Provides an interactive graphical interface.
   - **Usage**:
     - Upload sequence files via the graphical interface, select parameters, and generate Dotplots.
   - **Output**: Interactive Dotplots with zoom and detail viewing capabilities.
   - **Website**: http://cube.univie.ac.at/gepard

---

### 3. **paf2dotplot**

**Introduction**: Draw a dot plot from a paf alignment (usually generated by [minimap2](https://github.com/lh3/minimap2)). Paf2dotplot is adapted from [dotPlotly](https://github.com/tpoorten/dotPlotly/), but it has some extra features and parameters, for details, just have a try!

   - **Website:** https://github.com/moold/paf2dotplot

### 4. **custom script with SVG**

**Usage:**

```bash
perl ../bin/Draw_Dot.pl -GeneStr \
-Qinfo Query.len -Tinfo Target.len \
-Qcol "0,8,9" -Tcol "1,11,12" -Scol 16 \
-w 800 -h 800 -YtR \
-Tgff NPY4R.change.gff \
-GeneW 5.0 \
dotplot.svg \
blastn.tab.filter
```

Note: the scripts and SVGLAB.pm module can find in bin/ and SVG
